[Music]
imagine what it's like living in a
giant's world midget midget midget
you're just known as the midget you have
no other identity with everyday tasks
beyond your reach
I hook it on to my parents to push my
pants down being overlooked by everyone
that's it on the head that only queue
and when your size is the biggest joke
in town that don't have the culture to
accept people who are different with
them disabled person oh look she's over
there in the scooter she's you know
helpless no I've got shit to do these
are the stories of some of the most
extraordinary people on the planet this
is called a starfish game I can adjust
go hands together they are the people
who will never grow up my feet are like
little miniature teddy bear thing but
one to live like the rest of us annually
is not traditionally the kind of woman
that a man might pursue you're gonna get
down and dirty we're all the same size
lying down I know everything about me a
smooth
[Music]
[Applause]
most of these small where is I can't
think of any actual smallness and not
just me a small person firstly I wish
life threatened someone else Michael
Henry is officially Britain's shortest
man at a mere two foot 11 is the same
height as the average three year old
child
[Music]
everyone seems quite fit to me I'm not
for me sir
makes me think I have to run come on run
up one summer setting and I sit there
missions normally like this why like a
small person just does things in a
different way you'll find mechanisms and
ways okay I know I heard always somewhat
happy because that's why they are there
one of the chairs for someone like me to
make a cup of tea there's so many
functions I'm actually I'm sorry and I
have a drink with some as you can
appreciate I I need a drink after doing
all that it's quite tiring at the age of
49 Michael has spent all of his life
adjusting to the big world slightly no
I'm not too much
he may have turned his home into a
gigantic gymnasium but out and about
he's had to face an even bigger set of
problems
[Music]
fortunately for Michael modern
technology has come to his rescue
in the shape of his mobility scooter but
there are some things that even
technology can't solve
[Music]
everyone likes the match for the stars
but from the day I was born
I've always been reaching for something
when Michael was born they just said
leave him don't take him home okay I had
him I had him and I wasn't gonna leave
him Michael was one of a pair of twins
both his parents unknowingly carried a
gene giving either son a one in four
chance of dwarfism his brother Malcolm
grew normally but Michael wasn't so
lucky
I went to my secondary school I'm a
teenager never in a half that really
started nominating me you know like the
kids went so I like already
five-foot-tall when I was it's now way
back that's in fine 11 the first day the
deputy head saw him she nearly had a fit
cuz she just couldn't visualize somebody
as small as that I said all as long as
the lads they used to grab his arms
underneath and his feet would go up the
stairs because they had to change rooms
nothing stopped him no I don't listen
sight I've never been bullied in my life
some of the friends using a fight in
class that said next to me which was
quite a life span in learning michael
has diastrophic dysplasia a rare
skeletal condition with symptoms that
include short limbs and spinal curvature
it means he has feet the size of a
one-year-old and tiny three-inch hands
that can't be properly clenched it can
also cause degeneration in the joints
meaning the sufferer risks losing
mobility with age luckily for Michael
his job at the Southampton Customs and
Excise office is entirely desk-bound
obviously when you first meet him Issus
as surprised after like you know a few
hours in his company you realize that
he's no different to anybody else say
there's one other gang and they don't
see me as a little person companies
because of my my outlet character
personality at two foot eleven Michael
may be the UK's shortest man but he is a
long way from the world record today
Craig Glen day the editor of Guinness
World Records is on his way to meet a 19
year old who claims to be the smallest
man in the world arrived here at
Heathrow Airport on the first stage of a
very long journey I guess to find a very
small man about 6,000 miles away
hopefully in very small place called for
what and then in Mongolia there should
be a very small man at two-and-a-half
feet
and deep in the grasslands of Inner
Mongolia eight hours drive from Hohhot
city is the home village of ping ping
the man that Gregg will be measuring
[Music]
but that using with that when thinking
was born he wasn't big at all
we just couldn't understand it he was
only half a kilogram 19 year old ping
ping is a primordial dwarf meaning his
growth retardation started at an early
stage in the uterus he now weighs just 8
kilograms the same as an average one
year old the limbs head and body has
grown in the correct proportions as
normal but the overall effect is of a
miniaturized adult spending so much
money on medicines to help him grow but
nothing worked
we spent so much we were living off
instant noodles but in the end we
thought what's the point he didn't grow
no matter what we did that's all if the
hyoma
it's an incredibly rare condition that
affects less than 1 in 10 million people
as well as extreme short stature its
characteristics include a high squeaky
voice and the likelihood of deformities
in at least some of the joints
bingbing's family live a simple life as
farmers with just a few cattle and
chickens the house has only two rooms
one whether family eat and sleep and the
other a small kitchen with a simple
stove
[Music]
basic amenities are scarce there is
electricity that water has to be
collected from a well the family are
desperate for Bingbing to get the record
hoping that with fame fortune will
follow allowing them to escape their
life in the village Joey's here Joseph
your money cohorts will rule for cause
and these are I really hope my son can
go to the outside world many people say
to us why not go with your son and then
you can eat good food and live in grand
buildings you can leave this place
behind and enjoy a rich and happy life
19 year old ping ping has hardly ever
left home so his family have asked their
son-in-law u2n to act as his agent and
minder on the trip to meet Greg in
Hohhot City
[Music]
I'm excited about the record because it
means I can leave home and maybe even
throw it on a plan and visit some
foreign countries
[Music]
if the seculars ratified and keeping
ping is the world's shortest man who
changed his life and this time next year
he probably be world famous
and he'll be arrested all in the world
on TV shows the limitless options for
him I'm Nicky has no that's if he
measures up
[Music]
at three foot six the world seems a
tough place and being at the mercy of
bullies is just part of growing up
midget midget midget you're just known
as the midget you have no other identity
so it takes on a very negative
connotation 38 year old Tanya Lee Davis
has diastrophic dysplasia and back in
her hometown in Canada that made her the
butt of all the jokes there's one
instance where I rode my bicycle to
school and some boys threw my bicycle on
the top of the school like on the roof
and you know there I was I'm you know me
a pretty much stranded you might as well
just cut my legs off while you're at it
I had no way to get around I think it
made me more determined to speak back
and have some come back so I guess what
boys teased me I thought in my head
someday this will come in handy and it
did come in handy Tanya Lee drew on her
experiences for a comedy act which has
taken her all over the world
[Applause]
[Music]
I hear gasps from people they see me
waddling up and then crawling up in a
chair sometimes struggling they're just
like oh my god why they you know why are
you doing this so I have to disarm them
as soon as I get on stage the best
comedy comes from pain just talk about
stuff I know and I'd get into some
situations in my life so those are the
ones I like to talk about ng act may not
be for everyone but one man was
especially impressed
I had belly laugh she had so much
charisma and she was funny Marty hi Burt
a 47 year old divorcee became a regular
at her Los Angeles gigs nice going big
hug you know he's a big felon I thought
you know cool whatever I mean she's a
force of nature that's that's what I
thought well maybe there's something
something worth pursuing here we just
hung out what I mean it was just so like
I think we're dating cuz I didn't spend
a weekend without him
[Music]
can you Lee is not traditionally the
kind of woman that a man might pursue
but she cared about me and I cared about
her over that time period things grew
gradually and we're covering naturally
we went out a couple glasses of wine XE
oh shit happens you know smoke some pot
and end up in a bathtub with dishwashing
because you don't have any bubble bath
that's funny the couple embarked on a
whirlwind romance and after only a few
months tied the knot it wasn't long
after that Marty began to notice
something strange there were some
effects to the height that I was unaware
you know we hadn't thought of like
everywhere we would go we were stared at
and that took a little bit of getting
used to after a while the paths are got
about the height difference and nine
years on the marriage is still going
strong
for Britain's smallest man the quest for
love wasn't quite so smooth at the age
of 35 Michael Henry married another
little person but after three years the
couple went their separate ways why we
can't have enough they'll manage behind
me but it wasn't a bad split at the end
but it was one of those where the love
just wasn't there anymore not after
having no luck on the dating scene
Michael decided he needed to look
elsewhere to find his perfect match how
about at the time that and the ladies in
England the relationships for whatever
reason just weren't working out and I
just felt that's kind of fallen so
Michael joined an international dating
agency and was totally upfront about his
stature only one woman responded Joyce
Phyllis's from the Philippines didn't
seem to mind about his height
I just think in because he is a Catholic
and it's a good man you know when a few
months after their first date Mike
decided to pop the question they said
yeah I think I never meet a man like
this I can't know when you're not
standing up there's not a huge amount a
difference regarding you know the
snatching side of our relationship and
not everything about me is small and
today the couple will be celebrating
eight years of happy marriage
[Music]
Thanks
a year after the wedding came another
happy event the birth of their perfectly
normal-sized son Joseph
[Music]
now seven years old and four foot tall
he towers above his dad
well done charge of anything you want
[Music]
that'll see you like a car looks like oh
yeah carrots realize there's anything
that might you know once you're close
right
basically why not us I find a crystal
ball I would have not been born normal
I have a child with no disability and I
normally try and wake up with a smile on
my face
look at my son and just me I've been in
a better smile you can imagine
[Music]
in a few days time little people from
across the UK will be competing in their
own mini Olympics
it's the 2008 dwarf Athletics
Association Games where the standard
ranges from absolute beginners through
to world record holders the most coveted
medal of all will be for the 100-meter
sprint and all eyes will be on one man
[Music]
20 year old Holly Clark believe it or
not you never never believe that she's
quite quite amazing look at me now
unless the fastest log on the world as
proven by a world record I got for the
60 meters in France in 2003 I've had run
in 9.3 nine seconds you don't believe me
the record I've got it up here not proof
of my winning is this trophy or spangly
and shiny lovely when I've got the world
record in the 60 that's that's the best
thing it's really satisfying to run
against someone same abilities and
stature and stuff
[Music]
the fastest little person on the planet
may have the 60 meters record in the bag
but will he be able to step up and shine
in the 100 there's always a chance of
getting the record for the hundred
meters but for me I'd need to bring my
time down by quite a lot maybe in a
second someone who wants to steal all
his glory is his lifelong friend 20-year
old Andrew Martin this is the year for
me I think Holly should be afraid I
think this could be one of the closest
races still one of the best races I've
ever run Andrew trains with the big guys
to push himself to the absolute limit
over the 100 meters a normal sized
sprinter can reach a top speed of 10
meters per second compared to Andrews 7
and with much shorter legs he will take
75 strides instead of their 40 they've
only been I won't show my face in public
I know I'd run hide or huh there are
more than 200 types of dwarfism but
Andrew and Ollie both four foot six have
the most common form a contra place here
where the limbs are short in comparison
to the torso which is a normal size
there are few basic characteristics of
the a constipated condition
start with the the face the oven a
longer lower jaw usually no bridge to
the nose the eye is a wide set apart
there's a larger forehead area so I
can't straighten my arm one thing that
rich person has reached and a half above
the head but I can only just put hands
together and some people I know can't
even manage that they can just about get
their hands there often there's at this
different curve in the back which which
leads to the larger behind area so we're
carrying an average sized toss on
average weight on top on smaller legs so
it's a lot more stress on our legs
but in just two days time any disability
will be forgotten as hundreds of little
people get together to socialize and
compete when you're in the average world
you have to look up every time but when
you go to like the games so it's your
world and everyone's on your eye level
and it's
it's great
[Music]
shopping for clothes when you're only
four foot tall can be a challenge I like
this way but don't really like the
prince as he's our head from Iran is
also going to the games to compete in
the swimming events and today she's
looking for something to wear for the
all-important final night party if I
don't be long enough no it's not I
really want to have the right clothes
look my best for the big events also
because it might be a chance for me to
find my right person mr. right it's a
nice dress but then as you can see it's
a bit too long even with my girls it
still was too long having failed to find
anything that fits 25 year old Ozzie now
has to revert to the children's
department we're just gonna have a look
at kit section I might find something
that fits well but then I don't really
want to look like as like a child but it
sparkly pinky press one day I went to a
party and four of year old cake was bone
same dress as me I didn't really like it
four years ago as he left Iran where her
condition had never been fully accepted
the judge don't have the culture to
accept people who are different with
them I couldn't socialize with other
people in Iran I have never seen someone
like myself if they don't really know
that there are some other people in this
sport was born with the same condition
as me seven
[Music]
it's why I've decided to leave the
country early
[Music]
I think it freely looks really nice if I
could find a high hill and a right
exercise it wouldn't look Kitty at all
I'm really happy with coming to London
and meeting other little people has
changed as his life oh it's lots of
people here you have the same problem as
me he can't reach cash coins can't reach
telephones and I'm not the only one it
was really amazing having got the dress
she now needs high heels to complete the
image but when you're a tiny size one
that's a problem
I'm just looking for your column small
section before high else entry wow that
is my size I've just hoped as they can
dance on them really that's a proper
party shoes my first high he'll ever
feel like you've grown up
really
as the Sun rises over hohot city in
Inner Mongolia it's the start of the
most important day of nineteen-year-old
ping pings life today he will find out
if he is officially the world's shortest
man so excited about to meet hippy thing
for the first time I think I breakfast
I've heard that people thinking can be
slightly temperamental a bit moody I
suppose he's a teenager what she knows
we're here to make him famous after
today he'll be world famous hopefully I
am
I'm sure go on find big things morning
warning
we're taking your photographs today not
here to the house hey also I've seen
photographs of a pink thing before but
it's actually meet in the flash there's
that initial reaction you have was just
oh my god this is amazing
and almost unreal
[Music]
the human spine tends to contract
slightly through the day so Pingping
will need to be measured three times
over ten hours and the average taken
Craig has organized the sessions to
happen in the local state hospital where
a team of doctors will be present to
ensure an accurate reading
[Music]
I think he's beginning to get a sense of
what might be ahead of him in terms of
Fame and people stopping him in the
street all the time so he might not get
used to it because it's gonna happen
quite a lot shorter than I have expected
I've had around 75 maybe 74 so that's an
interesting sign with the first result
of 2 feet 5 inches ping dings prospects
for the record seem good and now with a
few hours before the final measurements
there's a chance for him to explore the
city
[Music]
but how will ping ping adjust to
suddenly being the biggest show in town
miss pointed it was terrifying see all
these can diffuse bodies surrounding him
all the time you feel very protective
towards him because the way he's going
to just trample on them at any moment if
you're not looking careful you may just
squish him underfoot
[Music]
to be officially measured and ratified
by Guinness we'll just completely change
his life which family will realize that
you may become a better cash cow that's
what accomplice that the famine and the
surviving a Guinness Rebecca
[Music]
helping three foot six stand-up
comedienne Tanya Lee Davis is back home
in Las Vegas where she lives with her
husband Marty I'm the king of the world
Marty's the best I'm treated like an
absolute princess for one thing he loves
me unconditionally
he's extremely patient hold on hold on
to me
repositioning ready you know sometimes I
wonder how I don't deserve him I guess
it's just nicely you can have somebody
in your life that loves you no matter
what sweet
but the couple face an uncertain future
thirty-eight-year-old Tonya Lee has a
spinal condition which is gradually
paralyzing her today she's making a 250
mile trip to LA to meet a surgeon who
will attempt to halt the process dr.
Michael crop is one of America's leading
experts in spinal surgery I feel like
things are going down I'm really
uncomfortable all the time sitting
standing Tanya Lee has spinal stenosis a
debilitating arthritic condition
commonly
diastrophic dwarfism pressed the spinal
cord and trap the nerves that lead into
it Latonya Lee's case is one of the
worst I've seen I have treated probably
hundreds of little people over the last
10 to 15 years and hers is one of the
most most difficult complicated that
we've seen so far you've got a pretty
tremendous generation in here if she
doesn't have surgery in the next few
months she most likely is going to be in
a wheelchair permanently so basically
what we're going to do is take the roof
top off each individual vertebral body
here and open up the spinal column and
creating a bigger opening for the spinal
cord that's a lot of levels oh my gosh
the worst-case scenario is if the
surgery doesn't work she could be
paralyzed I mean it's a it's a very
risky surgery your incision is gonna go
from excellent oh it's never easy with
my body I tell you I don't know I think
I've done pretty well so far but it
always seems like there's something else
popping up Tonya says we should have a
will made up and that's scary and I
guess we should do something like that
but I don't think it's gonna come to
that so
okay all right see you okay we'll talk
to the nurse if the case is that she
will be paralyzed from the chest down
then that's just something we'll deal
with and we'll get by we're doing it
Michael Henry Britain's shortest man
also has potential health worries mostly
caused by him being overweight enjoy
Johnson ain't your pains I might yeah
better and strong remember mine and dad
to have a normal lifespan
Michael that two foot eleven should be
consuming only 750 calories a day 1/3 of
an average man's intake but over the
years he's been getting through double
that and is ballooned from four stone to
nearly eight I suppose because of my
stature I should eat more child portions
but I honestly believe it is lack of
movement now I have in mobility that
crosses the way problem one shot I know
they're envious that I couldn't do the
things that he's doing the fact I can't
participate with my own son and those
activities but you know it's
that's knife and you know having I'm
fine luckiness there's a lot fearful
much worse off than I am you know so
that's nice
katia ping dings health is also a
concern primordial dwarves rarely live
much past the age of 30 and pimping
isn't exactly helping his situation
[Applause]
[Music]
he's even insisted that before the final
measurements his brother-in-law should
take him to stock up on his favourite
brands of cigarettes
[Music]
Pingping is a heavy smoker and during
this trip he's been getting through up
to 30 cigarettes a day I'm not sure I
totally agree with the smoking yeah I
think they fund of all cigarettes in the
world I smoked in China 74 getting shot
at during the day actually got taller
that's why we did a few measurements I
guess
over the course of today we've come up
with a total average of seven hundred
and forty six point 1 millimeters which
is a new Guinness World Record so in
essence the world's shortest man is a
mere two foot five it's the news the
crowd have been waiting to hear
[Applause]
it's a superstar
[Music]
in just a few hours Pingping will return
to his village as a hero but if all goes
to plan as every chance he'll be taking
his family back to the big city with him
very soon
[Music]
it's the opening day of the dwarf
Athletics Association games over the
next 48 hours more than a hundred little
athletes will do back
[Music]
the main stars of the show will be
Andrew Martin and the fastest little
person on the planet Polly Clark he's
want to do well today you think material
let's hear any ones they wonder well for
them people as well that we mean
business we're not here to muck about
we're here to be serious serious Jeff
yeah it's a good food it's a it's a buzz
versus just being back is that a warm
feeling
[Applause]
at the swimming pool Ozzy is moments
away from the event she's been training
for the 25 meters breaststroke my race
is the next one
it tightens
oh no fascinating association through my
friends it was a new world it was it was
in your life that was the first time
when I found that someone who was same
as me and that was amazing there was
just
[Music]
[Applause]
please as we worked on training for
I'm feeling really happy I'm feeling
really confident now and I don't have
the depression that he used to have but
I came to this country because of the
bad experience that I had in my country
[Applause]
back on the track it's the men's 100
meters Andy has been training all year
to take all his crown and this could be
his moment
[Applause]
[Music]
Ali's got off to a blistering start
while Andrews struggling to make up the
ground oli takes gold and Andrew server
put it out on the day it's a bit
gut-wrenching when you've been working
hard for so many months and he pull
something like that but now I'm pleased
I'm good I've done in 16.2 which is a
bit slow really be honest I thought I
was hoping for a 15-5 16.2 is a bit
disappointing but I'm still the fastest
fastest in the world at the the 60
meters still with the world record for
that has an American as far as I know
and 400 meters got a bit of work to do
on that got a couple seconds to scrub
off but I'm still fastest race times in
Britain
[Applause]
everyone short stature is facing daily
problems against got the people's and
there's and concepts of it than the use
of them so he's got a segment of pride
to be able to just walk on by and ignore
[Music]
people who say would you want to be to
one like well no no this was every time
I put it won't even be doing sport
[Music]
my wallet I need my ID in our Mountain
Park in Los Angeles it's the day that
Marty and Tonya Lee have been dreading
this morning she will face a six-hour
operation to try to halt a paralysis
I'm just kind of trying not to get too
emotional about it and keep my head
together and just plan on waking up in a
couple hours so I feel like a deer in
the headlights you know you you uh you
know this coming you know and right now
it's the moments here and it's just like
you know shock you know
it was ripe enough sleep
[Music]
surgery on a little person is
complicated by their size photon yilin
at 3 foot 6 the amount of anesthetic
required is the same dose given to a
child you basically are doing a large
person surgery and a person that is half
the size you know how much surgery can
she get away with we're gonna be
watching her neurological status with
spinal monitoring throughout the
procedure and if at any time during the
case there's any kind of a loss in her
spinal function we'll be able to see
that and we'll stop the procedure
I have all the faith in the doctors but
now they're just doctors so they can do
what they can do if something takes a
bad turn it'll take a bad turn it's
emotionally difficult but but I'm
getting fine
Tonya Lee's six-hour operation is
drawing to a close and for Marty the
agonizing wait will soon be over she has
this positive attitude something rotten
happens to her she's convinced it's
gonna turn into something good and it
does maybe that's something she's also
learned as she's grown up maybe maybe
this will also turn out well I hope so
the most nervous time is in the recovery
room when you're watching them wake up
and to make sure they're moving you know
both extremities I mean that's that's
when you know you've hit a homerun or
not hey Marty I'm really tired oh it's a
long day have a seat Thanks
everything's well doing well Tanya's
doing great she's in a recovery room
really pretty sleepy but she's moving
your toes and everything oh that's good
okay terrific yeah thanks very much like
you don't see your first thing in the
morning okay okay Tanya Lee is out of
immediate danger but the next 48 hours
will show if the operation has been a
success
trying to stand do you want me to come
over there when she stands yeah actually
you can come over here now yeah
two days on and incredibly Tanya Lee is
about to make an attempt at walking and
keep your eyes open just so I know that
you're not busy at all I'm just gonna
hold on to you and we have the Walker as
well excellent perfect okay okay let's
go back at least I'm moving obviously
I'm still gonna feeling in my legs so
that's good see her walk as quickly as
she did that was confirmation that the
surgery was successful congratulations
if the doctors say that she's now
recovering six months give or give her
three months she'll be back out there
just just approval
in Birmingham it's the end of the dwarf
athletics weekend and time for the final
night disco
[Music]
it's nice because we don't get hassle
from the average world where you get
people stopping and staring and pointing
and if you're out sometimes they're like
a nightclub or something you get some
attention from an appetite women but
it's only because they think you're like
you're sweet you're sweet it's more
adorable and all that Aziz got her new
dress on and is hoping to meet her mr.
right my ideal man to have someone a bit
taller than me then I can just hold
their hands naturally and I can dance
with them I can have eye contact kiss
them whenever I want and the plan seems
to be working as he has caught the eye
of Stan kuris from Belgium
[Music]
just lovely it's just a nice girl and to
be I was also quite interesting to talk
with we'll see what happens we'll see
what the future brings
[Music]
in Las Vegas
Tonya Lee is back at home recuperating
and is hoping to be back doing stand-up
by the end of the year with the launch
of the latest Guinness World Records
book
Pingping is about to find out what
global fame feels like but in the
meantime he's enjoying what's likely to
be the last bit of calm before the media
storm
[Music]
one night
Jew Michael who's turning 50 this year
has started a new health regime and is
continuing to look on the bright side of
life
no no I got I guess I'm assuming we've
all been put on this earth once me
having a chip on my shoulder I'll be
better about what I haven't got
where will it get me a knife honestly
don't think it would get me anywhere how
much faster then make the most with her
my hand you down with really that's me
yeah exercise for today thank you and
thank you Joseph
[Music]